---
title: Installing Vaultwarden (Bitwarden compatible) Server with Docker
description: Learn how to setup Vaultwarden using Docker and
updated_at: 2023-11-19
slug: vaultwarden
author_name: Artem Greis
author_url: https://github.com/artygreis
author_image: 
author_bio: 
tags: [bitwarden, vaultwarden, linux]
netcup_product_url: https://www.netcup.eu/bestellen/produkt.php?produkt=2902
language: en
available_languages: en
---

# Introduction
This tutorial explains how to setup a Vaultwarden server on a virtual server with Docker and how to enable Admin page. Vaultwarden is a Bitwarden compatible solution written in Rust and is used to securely store keys, passwords and confidential information. Storing data on your own server avoids data loss.

# Requirements

* Docker
* Ubuntu 22.04

# Step 1 - Check your Docker
```sh
docker --version
```
If the version is shown, then you can continue further.

# Step 2 - Pull the docker image
```sh
docker pull vaultwarden/server:latest
```

# Step 3 - Get token for Admin page
```sh
openssl rand -base64 48
```
Copy and save this token.

# Step 4 - Mount a volume
```sh
docker run -d --name vaultwarden -e ADMIN_TOKEN={token_get_on_step_3} -v /vw-data/:/data/ -p 80:80 vaultwarden/server:latest
```
- '**vw-data**' - folder for save data on disk
- '**80**' (on the left) - local port, you can change

# Conclusion
Now you can go to the address localhost:port in your browser to access the Admin panel. 

For Admin page: localhost:port/admin and then use token from step 3.

That's all.

# Licence

[MIT](https://github.com/netcup-community/community-tutorials/blob/main/LICENSE)

Copyright (c) 2021 netcup

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicence, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

# Contributor's Certificate of Origin
By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

 1) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I have the right to submit it under the licence indicated in the file; or

 2) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate licence and I have the right under that licence to submit that work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part by me, under the same licence (unless I am permitted to submit under a different licence), as indicated in the file; or

 3) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified it.

 4) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution are public and that a record of the contribution (including all personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with this project or the licence(s) involved.
