---
title: Set up/proxy redirect a Let's Encrypt SSL/HTTPS Certificate for a unique port with Hestia Control Panel on netcup.
description: Learn to set up or proxy redirect a Let's Encrypt SSL/HTTPS Certificate on unique port (example 2525) with Hestia Control Panel on netcup KVM.
level: intermediate/advanced
updated_at: 2024-11-17
slug: netcup-lets-encrypt-unique-port-hosting-using-hestia-control-panel
author_name: vdbhb59
author_url: https://github.com/vdbhb59
author_image: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/60728004
author_bio: Songs & Books 4ever
tags: [lets-encrypt, unique-port, reverse-proxy, ssl, https]
netcup_product_url: https://www.netcup.eu/bestellen/produkt.php?produkt=3691
language: en
available_languages: en
---

# Introduction

In this tutorial, I will guide you through the process of setting up a let's encrypt ssl/https certificate (reverse proxy) on a unique port other than 80/443, example **port:2525** on the root server for hosting using Hestia Control Panel. Hestia Control Panel is a popular open source web server control panel that simplifies the management of your website, email accounts, databases, and other hosting-related tasks. This tutorial is compatible with both VPS and Root Server offerings by netcup.

Assumptions:
* You already have a sub-domain setup and the requisite service installed at the specified http port (example - **http://sd1.domain.tld:2525**).
* You have the sub-domain setup with **SSL/HTTPS (443)** setup (example - **https://sd1.domain.tld**)
* You have bare minimum knowledge of terminal, web servers, vhosts, reverse proxy.

The reading time of this tutorial is about 25 minutes; implementation will take approximately 60 minutes.

# Prerequisites

- A root server from netcup with latest Ubuntu 20.04/22.04/LTS; Debian 10/11/12/LTS or later installed (see the below URL) - use minimal mode of installation, also called clean installation. [Installation Tutorial](https://github.com/netcup-community/netcup-root-server-hosting-using-hestia-control-panel/01-en.md/)
- A registered domain name
- Root (optional) or ssh access to your server

# Step 1: Update your system

Before we begin, it's essential to ensure that your system is up-to-date. Log in to your server via SSH as the root user and run the following command:

For Ubuntu/Debian:

```
apt update && apt upgrade -y
```

# Step 2: Add the necessary changes to the service (example git)

Login via SSH to the server.

```
username@serverip:port
```

I created a normal subdomain at normal 80/443 ports with LE SSL generated.
Then in the git app.ini (**/etc/git/app.in**) file, added this under **[server]**

```
nano /etc/git/app.ini
--------------
[server]
ENABLE_ACME = enable
HTTPS_PORT = 3000 ssl
ROOT_URL = https://git.domain.tld
-------------- **(save via)**
CTRL+X
Y
Enter
```

Then under nginx.conf (**$HESTIADATA\conf\web\git.domain.tld\nginx.conf**) I added

```
nano /$HESTIADATA\conf\web\git.domain.tld\nginx.conf
--------------
 location / {
     client_max_body_size 4096M;
     proxy_pass http://localhost:3000;
     proxy_set_header Connection $http_connection;
     proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
     proxy_set_header Host $host;
     proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
     proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
     proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;
-------------- **(save via)**
CTRL+X
Y
Enter
```

Then under apache2.conf (**$HESTIADATA\conf\web\git.domain.tld\apach2.conf**) I added

```
nano /$HESTIADATA\conf\web\git.domain.tld\apache2.conf
--------------
     ProxyPreserveHost On
     ProxyRequests off
     AllowEncodedSlashes NoDecode
     ProxyPass / http://localhost:3000/ nocanon
-------------- **(save via)**
CTRL+X
Y
Enter
```

Then under apache2.ssl.conf (**$HESTIADATA\conf\web\git.domain.tld\apache2.ssl.conf**) I added

```
nano /$HESTIADATA\conf\web\git.domain.tld\apach2.ssl.conf
--------------
 < VirtualHost git.domain.tld:8443 https >
*****************************
*****************************
    ProxyPreserveHost On
     ProxyRequests off
     AllowEncodedSlashes NoDecode
     ProxyPass / http://localhost:3000/ nocanon
-------------- **(save via)**
CTRL+X
Y
Enter
```

I also enabled the following to ensure the proxy works:

```
 a2enmod proxy
 a2enmod proxy_http
 a2enmod proxy_balancer
 a2enmod proxy_wstunnel
 systemctl restart apache2
```

Then I restarted all services

```
 systemctl restart apache2
 systemctl restart nginx
 systemctl start git.service
```

I got the help from these:

[APache SSL Long Record Error](https://stackoverflow.com/a/42206383)

[Let's Encrypt SSL Certificate](https://www.reddit.com/r/forgejo/comments/1ar9j72/comment/kqudf1t/)

[Gitea Reverse Proxy - Apache HTTPD](https://docs.gitea.com/administration/reverse-proxies#apache-httpd)

[Gitea Reverse Proxy - General Conf](https://docs.gitea.com/administration/reverse-proxies#general-configuration)

[Gitea Reverse Proxy - NGINX](https://docs.gitea.com/administration/reverse-proxies#nginx)

# Conclusion

Awesome! You've successfully set up a let's encrypt certificate on a unique port other than the usual 443/8443.
# Licence

[MIT](https://github.com/netcup-community/community-tutorials/blob/main/LICENSE)

Copyright (c) 2024 netcup

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicence, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

# Contributor's Certificate of Origin
By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

 1) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I have the right to submit it under the licence indicated in the file; or

 2) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate licence and I have the right under that licence to submit that work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part by me, under the same licence (unless I am permitted to submit under a different licence), as indicated in the file; or

 3) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified it.

 4) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution are public and that a record of the contribution (including all personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with this project or the licence(s) involved.
