---
title: Install WordPress on Debian
description: Learn how to install WordPress on Debian servers
updated_at: 2021-01-16
slug: install-wordpress
author_name: Zoey Löchner
author_url: https://github.com/Zoey2936
author_image: https://dl.scdmx.de/images/Zoey-PB.webp
author_bio: -
tags: [web, mysql, linux, debian, mariadb, wordpress]
netcup_product_url: https://netcup.de/bestellen/produkt.php?produkt=2894
language: en
available_languages: en
---

# Introduction

In this tutorial you will learn how to install:

- WordPress

I am doing this on a Debian 11 server (RS Zimtstern) but the installation should also work on other Debian versions.

# Requirements

You need Apache2, PHP and MariaDB installed on your server, see [here](https://github.com/netcup-community/community-tutorials/blob/main/community-tutorials/install-web-server-mariadb-debian-php/01-en.md).

## Installing WordPress

WordPress is an open source website / blogging software. <br>

- Follow Step [1.5](https://github.com/netcup-community/community-tutorials/blob/main/community-tutorials/install-web-server-mariadb-debian-php/01-en.md#step-15-installing-a-configuration-for-the-web-server) and create a new domain or subdomain for the website. <br>
- Switch to the folder you have just created (replace FOLDER with the name of the folder):

```sh
cd /var/www/FOLDER
curl -L -o latest.zip https://wordpress.org/latest.zip
unzip latest.zip
mv ./wordpress/* ./
rm -r wordpress
```

- Create a database for the web service [(see Step 1.7)](https://github.com/netcup-community/community-tutorials/blob/main/community-tutorials/install-web-server-mariadb-debian-php/01-en.md#step-17---creating-a-database-optional).<br>
- Open WordPress via https://DOMAIN/wp-admin/setup-config.php and follow the steps shown.

# Conclusion

You installed a WordPress website. <br>
This tutorial contains content of https://github.com/SanCraftDev/Debian-Setup/blob/main/README.md and https://github.com/louislam/uptime-kuma.

# License

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicence, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

# Contributor's Certificate of Origin

By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

1.  The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I have the right to submit it under the license indicated in the file; or

2.  The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate license and I have the right under that license to submit that work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part by me, under the same license (unless I am permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated in the file; or

3.  The contribution was provided directly to me by some other person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified it.

4.  I understand and agree that this project and the contribution are public and that a record of the contribution (including all personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with this project or the license(s) involved.
