---
title: Installing and Configuring a ProFTPD Server on a Debian/Ubuntu Server
description: Learn how to install a ProFTPD Server on a Debian/Ubuntu server.
updated_at: 2021-11-26
slug: install-ftp-ssl-server-debian-ubuntu
author_name: Jonas Löchner
author_url: https://github.com/Zoey2936
author_image: https://dl.sancraft.dev/images/Sanoj/1.png
author_bio: -
tags: [linux, debian, ftp, ftps, proftpd, ssl]
netcup_product_url: https://netcup.de/bestellen/produkt.php?produkt=2894
language: en
available_languages: en
---

# Introduction
This tutorial explains how to install and configure a ProFTPD server on a Debian or Ubuntu server and how to secure your FTP connection (FTPS). <br>
I am doing this on a Debian 11 server (netcup RS 2000), but it should work on other Debian and Ubuntu versions as well.<br>
This is an advanced version of https://github.com/SanCraftDev/Debian-Setup/blob/main/README.md#proftpd

# Requirements
You need a Debian server with an internet connection that is accessible from the internet via a static IP on port 21.  <br>
You also need root permissions on your server.

# Step 1 - Installing ProFTPD
First, connect to your server via SSH. <br>
After that, we switch to the root user to update the system and afterwards we'll install the ProFTPD server.
```sh
su
apt update && apt upgrade -y && apt autoremove -y
apt install wget curl sudo nano proftpd openssl -y
addgroup ftpuser
```
On Debian 11, you also have to run this command:
```sh
apt install proftpd-mod-crypto
```

## Step 2 - Configuring ProFTPD
Open the ProFTPD configuration file:
```sh
nano /etc/proftpd/proftpd.conf
```

Press <kbd>CTRL + W</kbd> and enter `Group nogroup` to search for the desired line. Replace this line with `Group ftpuser`:
```diff
- Group nogroup
+ Group ftpuser
```

Press <kbd>CTRL + W</kbd> and enter `#Include /etc/proftpd/tls.conf` to search for the desired line. Replace this line with `Include /etc/proftpd/tls.conf`:
```diff
- #Include /etc/proftpd/tls.conf
+ Include /etc/proftpd/tls.conf
```

Now add this text at the beginning of the file:
```

<Global>
  RequireValidShell  off
  RootLogin  off
  DefaultRoot ~
</Global>
 
<Limit LOGIN>
  DenyGroup  !ftpuser
</Limit>
```
Save your changes by pressing <kbd>CTRL + X</kbd>, then by pressing <kbd>y</kbd> and finally by hitting <kbd>ENTER</kbd>. <br>


Open the ProFTPD modules file
```sh
nano /etc/proftpd/modules.conf
```
Now go to the beginning of the file and insert this line there:
```
LoadModule mod_tls.c
```

## Step 3 - Securing via SSL
To make the connection more secure we need to enable FTPS. <br>
For this, we first save the original FTPS configuration, create an SSL Certificate and then create the new configuration.
```sh
cd /etc/proftpd/
mv tls.conf tls.conff
openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:8096 -keyout /etc/ssl/private/proftpd.key -out /etc/ssl/certs/proftpd.crt -nodes -days 999999
```
Now you are asked some questions which you can answer directly or by entering a period (`.`) <br>

```sh
chmod 0640 /etc/ssl/private/proftpd.key
```
Open the tls.conf:
```sh
nano tls.conf
```
And paste this text here:
```
<IfModule mod_tls.c>
TLSEngine                               on
TLSLog                                  /var/log/proftpd/tls.log
TLSProtocol                             SSLv123 TLSv1
TLSRSACertificateFile                   /etc/ssl/certs/proftpd.crt
TLSRSACertificateKeyFile                /etc/ssl/private/proftpd.key
TLSOptions                              NoCertRequest EnableDiags NoSessionReuseRequired
TLSVerifyClient                         off
TLSRequired                             on
TLSRenegotiate                          required off
</IfModule>
```
Now we need to restart ProFTPD:
```sh
service proftpd restart
```

## Step 4 - Creating an FTP user
In the next command, replace `USERNAME` with a valid username and `PATH` with the path to which the user should have access:
```sh
adduser USERNAME --shell /bin/false --home /PATH --ingroup ftpuser
```

# Conclusion
With the aid of this tutorial, you set up an FTP server with encryption. <br>
This is an advanced version of https://github.com/SanCraftDev/Debian-Setup/blob/main/README.md#proftpd

# License

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicence, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

# Contributor's Certificate of Origin
By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

 1) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I have the right to submit it under the license indicated in the file; or

 2) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate license and I have the right under that license to submit that work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part by me, under the same license (unless I am permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated in the file; or

 3) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified it.

 4) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution are public and that a record of the contribution (including all personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with this project or the license(s) involved.

Signed off by: Jonas Löchner | [admin@san0j.de](mailto:admin@san0j.de)
