---
title: Installing a Squid HTTP Proxy on Debian/Ubuntu
description: Learn how to install a Squid HTTP proxy on a Debian or Ubuntu server.
updated_at: 2021-11-09
slug: install-squid-http-proxy-debian-ubuntu
author_name: Jonas Löchner
author_url: https://sancraft.dev/
author_image: https://dl.sancraft.dev/images/Sanoj/1.png
author_bio: -
tags: [debian, proxy, squid, squid3, http, buster, bullseye, ubuntu]
netcup_product_url: https://netcup.de/bestellen/produkt.php?produkt=2623
language: en
available_languages: en
---

# Introduction

This tutorial shows you how to install a Squid HTTP proxy on your Debian or Ubuntu "RS 2000" server. In addition, it will include explanations on how you can connect to the proxy from almost any client. <br>
I am doing this on a Debian 11 server, but the installation should work on other Debian versions and on Ubuntu as well. <br>
This is an advanced version of https://github.com/SanCraftDev/Debian-Setup/blob/main/README.md#Squid-HTTP-Proxy---with-Password-Authentication.

# Requirements

You need a Debian or Ubuntu server with an internet connection, which must be reachable from the internet via a static IP on port `3128`. <br>
You also need root permissions on your server.

# Step 1 - Installing Squid

First you need to connect to your server via SSH. <br>
Then we'll switch to the root user and update the system, install all the required packages and, finally, install the Squid HTTP proxy:

```sh
su
apt update && apt upgrade -y && apt autoremove -y
apt install curl sudo wget apache2-utils nano -y
apt install squid -y
```

## Step 1.1 - Inserting the configuration

Now we need to add a configuration to the Squid proxy. <br>
This configuration allows you to connect to the HTTP proxy using a username and password and makes your origin IP invisible to the web servers you visit. <br>
Open the configuration:

```sh
nano /etc/squid/squid.conf
```

Add the following lines to the beginning of the file:

```

auth_param basic program /usr/lib/squid/basic_ncsa_auth /etc/squid/passwords
auth_param basic realm proxy
acl authenticated proxy_auth REQUIRED
http_access allow authenticated
forwarded_for off

```

Save your changes by pressing **CTRL + X**, then **Y** and finally by hitting **Enter**.

## Step 1.2 - Creating users

In this step we need to create users to access the proxy. <br>
In the following command, please replace "USERNAME" with the actual username you will use for password login to the proxy:

```sh
htpasswd -c /etc/squid/passwords USERNAME
```

Now enter a new secure password. <br>
Repeat this step depending on the number of users you want to use this proxy.

## Step 1.3 - Starting Squid

To enable the inserted configuration, we need to restart the Squid proxy. To do this, simply run: <br>

```sh
service squid restart
```

The restart may take a longer while.

# Step 2 - Setting up the devices

## Step 2.1 - Windows 11

- Open your "Settings" app and go to "Network and internet". <br>
- Select "Proxy" and under "Manual proxy setup" select the "Setup" button to the right of "Use a proxy server". <br>
- Enable "Use a proxy server" and under "Proxy IP address" enter the IP address or the hostname of your proxy server, and under "Port" add port `3128`.<br>
- Activate the checkbox "Don't use the proxy server for local (intranet) addresses". <br>
- Click the "Save" button.<br>

You will sometimes be asked for one of the usernames (and related password) that we previously created in [Step 1.2](#step-12---creating-users).

## Step 2.2 - Windows 10

- Open your "Settings" app and go to "Network and internet". <br>
- Select "Proxy" and under "Manual proxy setup" activate "Use a proxy server". <br>
- Under "Address" enter the IP address or the hostname of your proxy server, and under "Port" add port `3128`. <br>
- Activate the checkbox "Don't use the proxy server for local (intranet) addresses".<br>
- Click the "Save" button.<br>

You will sometimes be asked for one of the usernames (and related password) that we previously created in [Step 1.2](#step-12---creating-users).

## Step 2.3 - Android

- Open your "Settings" app and go to your Wi-Fi settings. <br>
- Press your Wi-Fi network for some time and select "Change" or "Settings" or, if there is something like a "Settings" button shown on your connected Wi-Fi network, press this button.<br>
- Click on "Show more" and select "Proxy", then select "Manual". <br>
- Under "Address" or "Hostname" enter the IP address or the hostname of your proxy server and under "Port" add port `3128`. <br>
- Click the "Save" button. <br>

You will sometimes be asked for one of the usernames (and related password) that we previously created in [Step 1.2](#step-12---creating-users).

## Step 2.4 - IOS - iPadOS

- Open your "Settings" app and go to your Wi-Fi settings. <br>
- Press your Wi-Fi network and select "Configure proxy", then select "Manual".<br>
- Under "Server" enter the IP address or the hostname of your proxy server and under "Port" add port `3128`. <br>
- Activate the "Authentication" checkbox and enter your username (and related password) that we previously created in [Step 1.2](#step-12---creating-users). <br>
- Now click the upper button to save.

## Step 2.5 - macOS

- Open your settings and select "Network", there select your Ethernet or Wi-Fi network. <br>
- Then select "Advanced" and "Proxies", here select "Web Proxy (HTTP)" and "Secure Web Proxy (HTTPS)". <br>
- Enter your IP address or the hostname of your proxy server and port `3128`. <br>
- Click "Ok" and then "Apply". <br>

Now if you are asked for it (you may need to reboot), enter your username (and related password) that we previously created in [Step 1.2](#step-12---creating-users).

## Step 2.6 - Linux

Run the following commands to install the required packages and to open the proxy configuration file:

```sh
su
apt update && apt upgrade -y && apt autoremove -y
apt install curl sudo wget nano -y
sudo nano /etc/environment
```

Now add the following lines replacing `username` with an actual username and define a `password` for the user. This is one of the users we previously created in [Step 1.2](#step-12---creating-users). Also, replace "hostname" with the IP address or the hostname of your proxy server and "port" with port `3128`:

```sh
http_proxy="http://<username>:<password>@<hostname>:<port>/"
https_proxy="http://<username>:<password>@<hostname>:<port>/"
no_proxy="localhost,127.0.0.1,::1"
```

Now save your changes by pressing **CTRL + X**, pressing **Y** and finally by hitting **Enter**.

# Conclusion

You successfully set up a Squid HTTP proxy with username and password protection and additionally connected your devices with this proxy. <br>
This is an advanced version of https://github.com/SanCraftDev/Debian-Setup/blob/main/README.md#Squid-HTTP-Proxy---with-Password-Authentication.

# License

MIT

# Contributor's Certificate of Origin

By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

1.  The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I have the right to submit it under the license indicated in the file; or

2.  The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate license and I have the right under that license to submit that work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part by me, under the same license (unless I am permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated in the file; or

3.  The contribution was provided directly to me by some other person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified it.

4.  I understand and agree that this project and the contribution are public and that a record of the contribution (including all personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with this project or the license(s) involved.

Signed off by: Jonas Löchner | [admin@san0j.de](mailto:admin@san0j.de)
