---
title: How to install dockerized onedev with postgres database
description: This guide will help you install docker and onedev with an database in few minutes
level: [beginner]
updated_at: 2023-04-19
slug: how-to-install-dockerized-onedev-with-postgres-database
author_name: Peter Mesiha
author_url: [add a link to your Github profile here](https://github.com/MrReginaldKray)
author_image:
author_bio:
tags: [shell, ssh, linux, docker, onedev, postgresql] 
netcup_product_url: https://www.netcup.de/bestellen/produkt.php?produkt=2884 with server in vienna
language: en
available_languages: [de, en]
---

# Introduction

In this how-to tutorial you are going to setup your own onedev git server with CI/CD and Kanban.
Also with a lof of extra features like symbol navigation and code search, customizable issue field and workflow, visual editor for CI/CD pipeline files, service desk for customer support, code annotation with static analysis results.
And the best part is that it is easy to use, maintain and setup.

We are going to uninstall any old docker engine and install the lates (can be skipped), create/edit the docker-compose file, up all the container and check the setup.

# Requirements

- Docker
- Docker Compose or docker-compose
- Linux Server

# Step 1 - Uninstall old Docker Engine, CLI, containerd, and Docker Compose packages

``` bash
sudo apt-get purge docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io docker-buildx-plugin docker-compose-plugin docker-ce-rootless-extras
```

# Step 2 - Curl the script for installation from docker

``` bash
curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com -o get-docker.sh
```

# Step 3 - Dry run the script to check for complications

``` bash
sudo sh ./get-docker.sh --dry-run
```

# Step 4 - Finally run the script

``` bash
sudo sh ./get-docker.sh
```

# Step 5 - Verify the installation

``` bash
docker --version
```

# Step 6 - Create a folder to save the docker compose file and cd into that folder

``` bash
mkdir onedev-with-postgres
```

``` bash
cd onedev-with-postgres
```

# Step 7 - Copy the docker compose file to your system

``` bash
vim docker-compose.yml
```

Paste the content inside this file.

``` yml
---
version: '3.8'

services:
   app:
      hostname: 'onedev'
      image: '1dev/server:latest'
      container_name: 'onedev-app'
      restart: unless-stopped
      environment:
         - hibernate_dialect=io.onedev.server.persistence.PostgreSQLDialect
         - hibernate_connection_driver_class=org.postgresql.Driver
         - hibernate_connection_url=jdbc:postgresql://onedev-db:5432/onedev
         - hibernate_connection_username=onedev-user
         - hibernate_connection_password=changeMe.aHighlyComplexPasswordToKeepYouSecure
         - initial_user=changeMe.user
         - initial_password=changeMe.password
         - initial_email=changeMe.email@example.com
         - initial_server_url=https://changeMe.example.com
         - initial_ssh_root_url=ssh://changeMe.example.com
      volumes:
         - 'onedev-app-data-vol:/opt/onedev'
         - '/var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock'
      networks:
         - 'onedev-network'
      ports:
         # left side is host side - right side is container side and should not be changed
         - '6610:6610'
      depends_on:
         db:
            condition: service_healthy
   db:
      hostname: 'postgresql'
      image: 'postgres:latest'
      container_name: 'onedev-db'
      restart: 'unless-stopped'
      networks:
         - 'onedev-network'
      environment:
         - POSTGRES_USER=onedev-user
         - POSTGRES_PASSWORD=changeMe.aHighlyComplexPasswordToKeepYouSecure
         - POSTGRES_DB=onedev
      volumes:
         - 'onedev-db-postgresql-vol:/var/lib/postgresql'
         - 'onedev-db-postgresql-data-vol:/var/lib/postgresql/data'
      healthcheck:
         test: ["CMD-SHELL", "pg_isready"]
         interval: 1m
         timeout: 5s
         retries: 5

volumes:
   onedev-app-data-vol:
      name: 'onedev-app-data-vol'
   onedev-db-postgresql-vol:
      name: 'onedev-db-postgresql-vol'
   onedev-db-postgresql-data-vol:
      name: 'onedev-db-postgresql-data-vol'

networks:
   onedev-network:
      name: 'onedev-network'

```

# Step 8 - Edit the docker-compose file

Edit the parts with 'changeMe.' and of course any other parts you want to modify like the ports exposed on the host machine.

# Step 9 - Check the configuration

Check that you have change all the 'changeMe.' parts and then you are good to go.

# Step 10 - Create the containers

With docker compose it is fairly easy to set everything up.

*Type:*

``` bash
docker compose up -d
```

# Step 11 - Check the containers

The deployment should take at max 2 minutes to be up and running since the app is waiting for the db and the healthcheck to be successfull.

*Type:*

``` bash
docker ps -a
```

You should wait till the onedev-db container is up and healthy and the onedev-app to be up and running.

# Step 12 - Check the URL

Now you can check your port 6610 (or other port if you have changed the left side) with your browser at localhost:6610 or serverIP:6610 if you run it on a server in a different network or your provided url inside the docker compose file.

If you cannot reach the url after few minutes (3 to 4) you should check your ufw/ufw-docker to expose the ports through the firewall or check your proxy manager if you have one in usage.

Congratulations, you have created your own onedev server with its own db in few minutes.

# Conclusion

As you have seen it is straight forward setting up onedev with its own db instance.

# Licence

[MIT](https://github.com/netcup-community/community-tutorials/blob/main/LICENSE)

Copyright (c) 2021 netcup

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicence, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

# Contributor's Certificate of Origin
By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

 1) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I have the right to submit it under the licence indicated in the file; or

 2) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate licence and I have the right under that licence to submit that work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part by me, under the same licence (unless I am permitted to submit under a different licence), as indicated in the file; or

 3) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified it.

 4) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution are public and that a record of the contribution (including all personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with this project or the licence(s) involved.