---
title: Install wirow on Ubuntu 22.04
description: Learn how to install wirow (a free and open source web based video conferencing tool) on Ubuntu 22.04
level: beginner
updated_at: 2023-04-20
slug: ubuntu-wirow-installation
author_name: Konstantin Protzen
author_url: https://github.com/cuzimbisonratte
author_image: https://github.com/cuzimbisonratte.png
author_bio:
tags:
  [
    linux,
    ubuntu,
    wirow,
    videoconferencing,
    webconferencing,
    video,
    call,
    conference,
    meeting,
    free,
    open,
    source,
  ]
netcup_product_url: https://www.netcup.de/bestellen/produkt.php?produkt=2991
language: en
available_languages: [en, de]
---

# Introduction

This tutorial describes how to install Wirow on Ubuntu 22.04.

The time needed to follow this Tutorial is approximately 10 - 20 minutes.

The tutorial was tested on Ubuntu 22.04 (July 2023).

The tutorial uses the example ip `123.123.123.123`.  
This hostname needs to be replaced by the name of your own server when you perform the workflow described in this tutorial.  
We will also use the subdomain `conference.example.com` in this tutorial. Replace it with your own domain.

# Requirements

A VPS 200 is sufficient for this tutorial.

The Server needs to already have the Ubuntu 22.04 Image from the (SCP)[https://servercontrolpanel.de/] installed.

<hr>

Also you need a domain - A domain used in a webhosting package is sufficient.
(You can still use it for your webhosting, because we will use a subdomain)

<hr>

Also you need to have a user on each of the Database-Servers you want to access with PHPMyAdmin.  
They can even be read-only users, but they need to have access to all databases you want to access with PHPMyAdmin.

- You can create a new user in the WCP (Plesk) under "Databases" -> "Users" -> "Add Database User".
- After creating the new user, if you click the edit-button, you can set the permissions for the user.

# Step 1 - Finding out the IP of your Server

1. Login to the SCP (ServerControlPanel) under https://www.servercontrolpanel.de
2. Click on the Server you want to use
3. Already being in the "General"-Tab there is a "Network"-Pane in the bottom right.
4. Here you can find the IP of your Server (Under IPv4)
5. Write it down somewhere

# Step 2 - Configuring DNS

1. Login to the CCP (CustomerControlPanel) under https://www.customercontrolpanel.de
2. In the sidebar on the left click on "Domains"
3. Find the domain you want to use and click on the Magnifying Glass next to it
4. In the new window click on "DNS"
5. Scroll down until there are empty fields
6. In the first field write your subdomain-name (I recommend using "conference" or something alike)
7. In the dropdown menu select `A`
8. In the last field write the IP of your Server (from Step 1)
9. Click on "Save DNS records" at the bottom of the form.

# Step 3 - Preparing the Server

First you need to log-in to your Server via SSH, then:

1. Enter `sudo -s` to get root privileges
2. If asked for your password enter it and press `Enter`
3. Now enter `apt update -y && apt upgrade -y  && apt remove -y nginx apache2 lighttpd && apt autoremove -y && apt install -y wget unzip zip` to update the Server, remove any existing webservers and old packages and install needed packages.

- If a pink window with the title "Pending kernel upgrade" appears, press `Enter` once to continue.
- If a pink window with the title "Daemons using outdated libraries" appears, press `Enter` once to continue.

4. Enter `exit` to exit the root shell

# Step 4 - Getting the wirow files

1. Go to (wirow.io)[wirow.io] and click on "EAP" in the menu bar
2. Now you have to enter your email address and Name and click on "Request Access" (You can enter "None" in the "Company" field)
3. You will receive an email with a link to the download page
4. Copy the link

# Step 5 - Starting wirow

1. Enter `wget ` and then paste the link you copied in Step 4 and press `Enter`;
2. Enter `unzip wirow.zip` to unzip the downloaded file
3. Enter `sudo /usr/sbin/setcap 'cap_net_bind_service=+ep' ./wirow` to allow wirow to use port 80 and 443 (You will be asked for the root user password)
4. Enter `./wirow -n conference.example.com -a PASSWORD` to start wirow (Replace `conference.example.com` with your subdomain and `PASSWORD` with a password of your choice)
5. Navigate to your domain in your browser and enter the password you chose in Step 5.3 with the username "admin" to login to wirow
6. Click on the big "Admin" button in the center
7. Click on the users icon in the top right corner
8. Click on the Edit-Button next to the user "admin"
9. Enter a new password and click on "Save" (You can also change the username here or add an email address)
10. Press `Ctrl+C` to stop wirow in the terminal

# Step 6 - Setting up Wirow to start on boot

We want to start Wirow automatically when the server starts.

1. Enter `sudo nano /etc/systemd/system/wirow.service` to create a new systemd service file.
2. Paste the following code into the file:

```systemd
[Unit]
Description=Wirow - A free and open source web based video conferencing tool
Documentation=https://github.com/wirow-io/wirow-server
After=network.target

[Service]
Type=simple
User=[REPLACE_WITH_USERNAME]
WorkingDirectory=/home/[REPLACE_WITH_USERNAME]/
ExecStart=/home/[REPLACE_WITH_USERNAME]/wirow -n conference.example.com
Restart=on-failure

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

3. Replace `[REPLACE_WITH_USERNAME]` with the user under which you extracted the wirow files in Step 5.2.
4. Replace `conference.example.com` with your domain.
5. Exit the file by pressing `Ctrl + X` and then `Y` and then `Enter`.
6. Enter `sudo systemctl daemon-reload` to reload the systemd daemon.
7. Enter `sudo systemctl enable wirow` to enable the service.
8. Enter `sudo systemctl start wirow` to start the service.

# Step 7 - Setting up the Firewall

We need a firewall to protect our server from unwanted connections.

We will use `ufw` (Uncomplicated Firewall) to set up the firewall, because it is easy to use and configure and is also pre-installed on Ubuntu.

1. Enter `ufw allow ssh` to allow SSH connections
2. Enter `ufw allow http` to allow HTTP connections
3. Enter `ufw allow https` to allow HTTPS connections
4. Enter `ufw enable` to enable the firewall
5. Press `Y` and then `Enter` to confirm

# Conclusion

Now you have successfully installed Wirow and set it up to start on boot.

Your Wirow instance from now on will be available at your subdomain (e.g. `https://conference.example.com`).

Thank you for using this tutorial!

# Licence

Copyright (c) 2023 Konstantin Protzen

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

# Contributor's Certificate of Origin

By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

1.  The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I have the right to submit it under the licence indicated in the file; or

2.  The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate licence and I have the right under that licence to submit that work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part by me, under the same license (unless I am permitted to submit under a different licence), as indicated in the file; or

3.  The contribution was provided directly to me by some other person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified it.

4.  I understand and agree that this project and the contribution are public and that a record of the contribution (including all personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with this project or the licence(s) involved.
