---
title: Using GitHub with SSH
description: How to do use GitHub with secure SSH authentication
updated_at: 2021-10-20
slug: using-github-with-ssh
author_name: Johannes Bluhm
author_url: -
author_image: https://anx.io/0WL19
author_bio: 
tags: ssh,git,github 
netcup_product_url: https://www.netcup.de/bestellen/produkt.php?produkt=2619
language: en
available_languages: en
---

# Introduction
In this tutorial I will explain how to install and configure Git as well as generating a SSH key for usw with GitHub. After completing this tutorial you will be able to use for example the `git pull` command without any further authentication. 

# Requirements
You need a Server running Ubuntu 20.04 with Shell access and root rights. This could by any VPS or Root Server from netcup; in my example I'm using the RS 1000 G9.

# Step 1 - Install Git
First of all we have to install Git. Log into your server and change to the root user. Then type `git --version` to see if Git is already installed. If the server responds with a version, eg. `git version 2.17.1` skip to the next step.

If you don't get a version number install Git with
```apacheconf
sudo apt install git
```

# Step 2 - configure Git
In order to use Git, you have to add your Name and E-Mail to the Git config. In order to do this type the following two commands:

```
git config --global user.name "your_name"
git config --global user.email "your_email_address"
```

You now can use Git, however for each request to GitHub you have to authenticate yourself. To mitigate this issue, we'll be adding a SSH key to GitHub.

# Step 3 - Generate SSH Key
If you don't have an SSH Key already you can configure one with
````apacheconf
ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096
````
For all the prompts type noting and just press enter. Once you created your key, get the public key with

```apacheconf
 cat /home/<your username>/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
```

This should output something like this:
```apacheconf
ssh-rsa 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 user@name
```

# Step 4 - Add SSH Key to GitHub
Navigate to GitHub in your webbrowser. Then go to Settings > SSH and GPG keys > SSH keys or use the link https://github.com/settings/keys. Then click on "New SSH key" and paste the value from step 3. Enter a name and click on "Add SSH key". 

That's all, you now can use commands such as `git clone` or `git pull`

# License
MIT

# Contributor's Certificate of Origin
Contributor's Certificate of Origin By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

 1) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I have the right to submit it under the license indicated in the file; or

 2) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate license and I have the right under that license to submit that work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part by me, under the same license (unless I am permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated in the file; or

 3) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified it.

 4) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution are public and that a record of the contribution (including all personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with this project or the license(s) involved.

Signed-off-by: (Johannes Bluhm, <netcup-community@pxmo.de>)
