---
title: Update Your Uptime Kuma Instance
description: Learn how to update your Uptime Kuma instance.
level: beginner
updated_at: 2023-11-28
slug: update-uptime-kuma
author_name: Konstantin Protzen
author_url: https://github.com/cuzimbisonratte
author_image: https://github.com/cuzimbisonratte.png
author_bio:
tags:
  [linux, ubuntu, uptime, monitoring, kuma, nodejs, nginx, update, up-to-date]
netcup_product_url: https://www.netcup.de/bestellen/produkt.php?produkt=2991
language: en
available_languages: [en, de]
---

# Introduction

This tutorial is a follow-up of the tutorial [Setup of Uptime Kuma Standalone on Ubuntu with a Reverse Proxy](https://community.netcup.com/en/tutorials/ubuntu-uptime-kuma-standalone-installation) and describes how to update your Uptime Kuma instance.

The time required for this tutorial is about 5 minutes.

# Requirements

You need a running Uptime Kuma instance that does not use the Docker setup.

Also, I recommend that you backup your Uptime Kuma instance before updating it. If you do not know how to do that, you can follow the tutorial [Backup and Restore of your Uptime Kuma Instance](https://community.netcup.com/en/tutorials/backup-uptime-kuma).

# Step 1 - Updating Uptime Kuma

This tutorial will update your Uptime Kuma instance to version 1.22.1 BUT you need to check whether that is the [Latest Uptime Kuma Release](https://github.com/louislam/uptime-kuma/releases/latest) latest version and replace the version number in command #5 below with the latest version number.

1. Log in to your server via SSH.
2. Enter `sudo systemctl stop uptimekuma` to stop the Uptime Kuma instance.
3. Enter your password and press `Enter`.
4. Move into the Uptime Kuma directory with `cd uptime-kuma`.
5. Enter `git fetch --all && git checkout 1.22.1 --force && npm install --production && npm run download-dist` to pull the latest changes from the Uptime Kuma repository - !! DO NOT FORGET TO REPLACE THE VERSION NUMBER WITH THE LATEST VERSION NUMBER !!
6. Restart the Uptime Kuma service with `sudo systemctl start uptimekuma`.
7. Enter `exit` to leave the SSH session.

# Conclusion

Now you know how to update your Uptime Kuma instance.

Thank you for reading this tutorial.

# License

[MIT](https://github.com/netcup-community/community-tutorials/blob/main/LICENSE)

Copyright (c) 2023 Konstantin Protzen

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

# Contributor's Certificate of Origin

By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

1.  The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I have the right to submit it under the license indicated in the file; or

2.  The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate license and I have the right under that license to submit that work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part by me, under the same license (unless I am permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated in the file; or

3.  The contribution was provided directly to me by some other person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified it.

4.  I understand and agree that this project and the contribution are public and that a record of the contribution (including all personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with this project or the license(s) involved.
