---
title: Using local Blockstorage on netcup Linux Server
description: Learn how to attach an local Blockstorage
updated_at: 2023-12-31
slug: how-to-use-local-block-storage
author_name: Luca Wunderlich
author_url: https://github.com/lucawun
author_image:
author_bio:
tags: [local-block-storage, backup, more-storage]
netcup_product_url: https://www.netcup.de/vserver/local-block-storage
language: de
available_languages: en,de
---

 # Introduction

In this tutorial we will show you how to integrate and use additional hard disks under Linux on a netcup server. 

# Requirements

The tutorial is aimed at users who already have access to their server via SSH. Please make sure that your user has the required authorizations. 

You can execute the following command at the beginning of each SSH session: ```bash sudo -i```

# Step 1 - Overview of available hard disks

To get an overview of all recognized hard disks, use the command:

```
fdisk -l
```

In our example, we have two hard disks: /dev/sda (the system hard disk) and /dev/vda (an additional 50 GiB hard disk).

# Step 2 - Create a partition

Use `cfdisk` to create a partition on the additional disk:

```
cfdisk /dev/vdb1
```

Select "dos" in the selection menu for an MBR partition table. Then create a 50 GiB partition as the primary partition.

# Step 3 - Format partition

Exit `cfdisk` and check that the partition has been created:

```
fdisk -l
```

Format the partition (in our example as ext4):

```
mkfs.ext4 /dev/vdb1
```

# Step 4 - Mount the partition

Create a folder for the hard disk (in our example "lbstorage"):

```
mkdir /lbstorage
```

Mount the partition in the folder:

```
mount /dev/vdb1 /lbstorage
```

# Step 5 - Automatic mounting after reboot

Find the UUID of the partition:

```
blkid /dev/vdb1
```

Open the `/etc/fstab` file and add the UUID:

```
nano /etc/fstab
```

Add the line at the end of the file (replace the UUID with the correct one):

```
UUID=your_uuid_here /lbstorage ext4 defaults 0 0
```

Save the file.

# Conclusion

The additional disk is now ready for use and will automatically be mounted after a reboot.

# License

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicence, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

# Contributor's Certificate of Origin

By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

1.  The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I have the right to submit it under the license indicated in the file; or

2.  The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate license and I have the right under that license to submit that work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part by me, under the same license (unless I am permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated in the file; or

3.  The contribution was provided directly to me by some other person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified it.

4.  I understand and agree that this project and the contribution are public and that a record of the contribution (including all personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with this project or the license(s) involved.
