---
title: Install Chrome Remote Desktop on Your Netcup Server
description: Learn how to install and configure Chrome Remote Desktop on your Netcup server to access it remotely.
level: intermediate
updated_at: 2023-05-11
slug: chrome-remote-desktop-installation
author_name: Nishant Bhagat
author_url: https://github.com/Nishantbhagat57
author_image: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/64642374
author_bio:
tags: [chrome remote desktop, linux, gui, rdp, netcup]
netcup_product_url: https://www.netcup.eu/bestellen/produkt.php?produkt=2902
language: en
available_languages: en
---

# Introduction
In this tutorial, you will learn how to install and configure Chrome Remote Desktop on your Netcup server to access it remotely. Chrome Remote Desktop is a free remote access tool that allows you to securely access your computer from another device over the internet. This tutorial assumes that you have a basic understanding of the Linux command line and have a Netcup server set up.

The estimated time for completing this tutorial is 10-15 minutes.

# Requirements
* A Netcup server with root access
* Google Chrome browser installed on your local machine

# Step 1 - Installing Chrome Remote Desktop
1. Log in to your Netcup Server Control Panel: https://www.servercontrolpanel.de
2. Click on the Screen option available on the left side of the window to open a VNC console where you can use the terminal to run commands.
3. Update the package index and install wget:
   ```
   sudo apt update
   sudo apt-get install -y wget
   ```
4. Download the installation script to install Chrome Remote Desktop and XFCE:
   ```
   wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Nishantbhagat57/netcup/main/server.sh
   chmod 777 *
   ./server.sh
   ```
   The server.sh script automates the installation process and includes the following commands:
   ```
   sudo apt update
   wget https://dl.google.com/linux/direct/chrome-remote-desktop_current_amd64.deb
   sudo apt-get install --assume-yes ./chrome-remote-desktop_current_amd64.deb
   sudo apt install xfce4 xfce4-goodies -y
   sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade
   ```

# Step 2 - Configuring Chrome Remote Desktop
1. In your terminal, run the following command to add your user to the chrome-remote-desktop group:
   ```
   sudo usermod -a -G chrome-remote-desktop $USER
   ```
2. On your local computer, using your Google Chrome browser, go to the remote desktop command line setup page: https://remotedesktop.google.com/headless
   Note: If you're not already signed in with your Google Account, then you'll need to sign in. This will be the account used for authorizing remote access.
3. In the Set up another computer section, click Begin.
4. Since you've already installed Chrome Remote Desktop on your remote machine, click Next to skip to the next page.
5. Click Authorize to allow Chrome Remote Desktop to access your account. If you're logged into multiple accounts, then you'll have to select which account you want to allow access to.
6. Copy the command displayed on the page. It should look something like this:
   ```
   DISPLAY= /opt/google/chrome-remote-desktop/start-host \
   --code="4/xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx" \
   --redirect-url="https://remotedesktop.google.com/_/oauthredirect" \
   --name= 
   ```
7. Create a new public GitHub repository and name it anything you like.
8. In this repository, create a new file named verify.sh and paste the command you copied in the previous step.
9. Save and commit the file.
10. Click on the Raw button to view the raw contents of the file. Copy the URL of the raw file.
11. Go back to the VNC console and run the following commands in the terminal:
    ```
    wget <paste raw file URL here>
    chmod 777 *
    ./verify.sh
    ```
    Note: Replace <paste raw file URL here> with the URL you copied in the previous step.
12. If prompted to enter a name for the computer, enter anything you like. When prompted to enter a PIN with at least 6 digits, enter any PIN you'd like to use. You'll use this PIN as a password when connecting to the remote desktop in Google Chrome.

# Step 3 - Connect to the Remote Machine via Chrome Remote Desktop
1. On your local computer, visit the Chrome Remote Desktop website: https://remotedesktop.google.com/access
2. If you're not logged into the Google Account that you used to generate the command earlier, then make sure to log back in. The remote machine that you've set up is tied to the Google Account.
3. Under Remote devices, you should see the name you entered earlier for your remote machine. Click on it to connect.
4. Enter the PIN you set up earlier and click the arrow to connect.
5. You should now be connected to your remote machine through Chrome Remote Desktop.

# Conclusion
Congratulations! You have successfully installed and configured Chrome Remote Desktop on your Netcup server and can now access it remotely.
If you encounter any issues during the installation or configuration process, feel free to refer to the official Chrome Remote Desktop documentation or contact Netcup support for assistance.
Thank you for following this tutorial and happy remote desktopping!
