---
title: How to create a new user account in Linux
description: This tutorial explains the steps to create a new user account in linux using the command line.
level: [beginner]
updated_at: 2023-04-19
slug: how-to-create-a-new-user-account-in-linux
author_name: Peter Mesiha
author_url: [add a link to your Github profile here](https://github.com/MrReginaldKray)
author_image:
author_bio:
tags: [shell, ssh, linux, user]
netcup_product_url: https://www.netcup.de/bestellen/produkt.php?produkt=2884 with server in vienna
language: en
available_languages: [de, en]
---

# Introduction

Creating a new user account in Linux can be done easily using the command line interface. In this tutorial, we will go through the steps required to create a new user account in Linux.

# Requirements

Before starting, you should have the following:

- Access to a Linux machine with sudo privileges
- Basic knowledge of the Linux command line interface

# Step 1 - Access the Command Line Interface

To create a new user account, we need to access the command line interface. Open your terminal or command prompt on your Linux machine.

# Step 2 - Create a New User Account

To create a new user account, run the following command:

``` bash
sudo adduser username
```

# Step 1 - Open the Terminal

To create a new user account, we need to use the command-line interface. Open the Terminal by pressing `Ctrl+Alt+T` on your keyboard or by searching for "Terminal" in the application launcher.

# Step 2 - Create a New User Account

To create a new user account, we will use the `useradd` command. The basic syntax of the `useradd` command is as follows:

``` bash
sudo useradd username
```

Replace `username` with the desired username for the new user account. For example, to create a new user account named `john`, use the following command:

``` bash
sudo useradd john
```

By default, the new user account will not have a password and will not be able to log in to the system. To set a password for the new user account, use the `passwd` command as follows:

``` bash
sudo passwd john
```

Enter and confirm the new password when prompted.

# Step 3 - Add User to Groups

By default, the new user account will not have any special privileges or permissions. To add the new user account to a specific group, use the `usermod` command as follows:

``` bash
sudo usermod -aG groupname username
```

Replace `groupname` with the name of the group you want to add the user to and replace `username` with the username of the new user account. For example, to add the user `john` to the `sudo` group, use the following command:

``` bash
sudo usermod -aG sudo john
```

# Conclusion

Creating a new user account in Linux is a simple process that can be completed using the command line interface. By following the steps outlined in this tutorial, you can create a new user account and grant administrative privileges if desired.

# Licence

[MIT](https://github.com/netcup-community/community-tutorials/blob/main/LICENSE)

Copyright (c) 2021 netcup

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicence, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

# Contributor's Certificate of Origin
By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

 1) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I have the right to submit it under the licence indicated in the file; or

 2) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate licence and I have the right under that licence to submit that work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part by me, under the same licence (unless I am permitted to submit under a different licence), as indicated in the file; or

 3) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified it.

 4) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution are public and that a record of the contribution (including all personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with this project or the licence(s) involved.
