---
title: Setup and Usage of a Simple SSH Proxy
description: Learn how to get messages in Telegram each time you or any other login on your server.
level: [beginner] 
updated_at: 2022-12-13
slug: get message after login
author_name: Michael Luckas
author_url: https://github.com/extremmichi/
author_image: -
author_bio: -
tags: [shell, ssh, linux] 
netcup_product_url: https://www.netcup.eu/bestellen/produkt.php?produkt=2991
language: en
available_languages: [de, en]
---
# Introduction

In this tutorial you will learn how to get messages on telegram after login.

I am doing this on a Debian  but the installations should also work on other Debian versions.


## Requirements

You need a running vServer or root server from netcup with root login.

## Step 1 - Installing Telegram
First we install Telegram on our Mobile and start the app.

## Step 2  creating a bot
Then we search the user botfather in the contacts.
We create a new bot, sending botfather the following message


    /newbot

 

botfather ask for a name of the bot
you can choose any name you want but be aware the name is unique.
then botfather ask for an username for the bot. Choose an name you want 
but the username must end with "_bot"
For example i used these names


 

    Superduperbot for the  Bot
    Superduperbot_bot for the Username

     

botfather creates now the bot and generate a token we need later.
so write down the Token
our Token for example:

    123456090:GDGSWNJqAp-voDqFYrAw0iq2Uoc8nuMu5fs

     
## Step 3 start the bot

We search our new bot in the contacts
Nun suchen wir unseren eben erstellten Bot in der Kontaktliste.
Kontakte->search Superduperbot an start the by clicking on start or write the message 


    /start

now we can get messages from the bot but he doesn t know us so we write him one or two messages
"Hello Bot" or "whats up?"

we ask as the bot for new messages to get our Telegram_id.
we point the Browser to


    https://api.telegram.org/bot[TOKEN]/getUpdates

     

change [TOKEN] with the Token you get from botfather
in this case:

    https://api.telegram.org/bot123456090:GDGSWNJqAp-voDqFYrAw0iq2Uoc8nuMu5fs/getUpdates.

     

or you use curl

    curl -X POST https://api.telegram.org/bot123456090:GDGSWNJqAp-voDqFYrAw0iq2Uoc8nuMu5fs/getUpdates

     
you get some data , for us is only the number after chat":{"id" important,
this is our Telegram_id

    ........."chat":{"id":123456789,"first_name":"my_first_name".......

     
## Step 4 creating the script

we create a script under /etc/profile.d with the name telegram_message_on_login.sh or any name you want.
every script under /etc/profile.d will be executed on each login on the Server.

    nano /etc/profile.d/telegram_message_on_login.sh

     

    #!/bin/bash

    TOKEN="123456090:GDGSWNJqAp-voDqFYrAw0iq2Uoc8nuMu5fs"
    ID="123456789"
    HOSTNAME=$(hostname -f)
    DATE="$(date +"%d.%b.%Y--%H:%M")"
    MESSAGE=" $USER hat sich am $DATE auf $HOSTNAME angemeldet!!"
    URL="https://api.telegram.org/bot$TOKEN/sendMessage"

    curl -s -X POST $URL -d chat_id=$ID -d text="$MESSAGE" >/dev/null

     

the cript must be executable

    chmod +x /etc/profile.d/telegram_message_on_login.sh

# Conclusion
Now  you get a message in Telegram after any login oń the Server



# License

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicence, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

# Contributor's Certificate of Origin

By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

1.  The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I have the right to submit it under the license indicated in the file; or

2.  The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate license and I have the right under that license to submit that work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part by me, under the same license (unless I am permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated in the file; or

3.  The contribution was provided directly to me by some other person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified it.

4.  I understand and agree that this project and the contribution are public and that a record of the contribution (including all personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with this project or the license(s) involved.
