---
title: Setup of a Minecraft server with plugins based on Purpur
description: Learn how to set up a Minecraft server with auto-update and auto-start based on Purpur.
updated_at: 2021-11-25
slug: minecraft-server-setup-with-purpur
author_name: Mawoka
author_url: -
author_image: -
author_bio: -
tags: [shell, linux, minecraft] 
netcup_product_url: https://www.netcup.de/bestellen/produkt.php?produkt=2554
language: en
available_languages: [en]
---

# Introduction
This tutorial describes how to set up a Minecraft server based on [Purpur](https://purpur.pl3x.net)

<!-- The reading time of this tutorial is about five minutes; implementation will take approximately 45 minutes. -->

The most important requirement for implementation is a basic understanding of the Unix command line. All examples were tested on a current Debian/Ubuntu (November 2021) and can be easily adapted to other distributions.


The tutorial uses the example hostname `v11111111.quicksrv.de`. This hostname needs to be replaced by the name of your own server when you perform the workflow described in this tutorial. Placeholders are written like this: `<TYPE OF PLACEHOLDER>`, e.g. `<USER>` should be replaced with your linux-username.

# Requirements

* The server should be economical,
* have sufficient CPU power, and
* it should at least have 8GB of ram.

The hard disk capacity, on the other hand, is not relevant.


# Step 1 - Ordering the VPS
At the time of the creation of this tutorial (October 2021), the recommended product to be used as Minecraft-server is [VPS 1000 G9](https://www.netcup.de/bestellen/produkt.php?produkt=2554). 
Existing customers can add the product easily and quickly.

# Step 2 - Basic configuration of the server
After provisioning of the server and the first login with the username `root` and the password sent by email, the first step is to update the basic configuration of the server.

1. Change the root password by means of `passwd`.
2. Import the current security updates with `apt-get update && apt-get upgrade -y`.
3. Create a user (`adduser`) and give him root permissions (`usermod -aG sudo <USER>`).
3. It is recommended to set up an SSH key at this point and to disallow password login for the root user. These procedures are not part of this tutorial and as the later functionality requires root capability, the setup of an unprivileged user is omitted at this point.

# Step 3 - Install Java
```bash
# install the necessary dependencies
sudo apt-get -q update
sudo apt-get -yq install gnupg curl 

# add Azul's public key
sudo apt-key adv \
  --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 \
  --recv-keys 0xB1998361219BD9C9

# download and install the package that adds 
# the Azul APT repository to the list of sources 
curl -O https://cdn.azul.com/zulu/bin/zulu-repo_1.0.0-3_all.deb

# install the package
sudo apt-get install ./zulu-repo_1.0.0-3_all.deb

# update the package sources
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt install zulu17-jdk-headless screen wget nano
```

# Step 4 - Create the scripts
Start by creating a new folder (`mkdir minecraft-server`) and cd into it: `cd minecraft-server`
Create the file `start.sh` by entering `nano start.sh` and paste the following content:
```bash
#!/bin/sh
cd /home/<USER>/minecraft-server/
wget -q -O purpur.jar https://api.pl3x.net/v2/purpur/1.17.1/latest/download
sleep 20s
/usr/bin/screen -dmS minecraft-server /usr/bin/java -Xms1G -Xmx5700M -XX:+UseG1GC -XX:+ParallelRefProcEnabled -XX:MaxGCPauseMillis=200 -XX:+UnlockExperimentalVMOptions -XX:+DisableExplicitGC -XX:+AlwaysPreTouch -XX:G1NewSizePercent=30 -XX:G1MaxNewSizePercent=40 -XX:G1HeapRegionSize=8M -XX:G1ReservePercent=20 -XX:G1HeapWastePercent=5 -XX:G1MixedGCCountTarget=4 -XX:InitiatingHeapOccupancyPercent=15 -XX:G1MixedGCLiveThresholdPercent=90 -XX:G1RSetUpdatingPauseTimePercent=5 -XX:SurvivorRatio=32 -XX:+PerfDisableSharedMem -XX:MaxTenuringThreshold=1 -Dusing.aikars.flags=https://mcflags.emc.gs -Daikars.new.flags=true -jar purpur.jar nogui
echo "Successfully started"
```
If you want to use another Minecraft version, replace 1.17.1 with your Minecraft version.

Now, make the file executable by entering `chmod +x start.sh` and start it: `./start.sh`. It should download some stuff and it should crash. That's because you have to agree to the eula in the `eula.txt`. Do this by opening the file (`nano eula.txt`)
and changing `false` to `true`:

```diff
- eula=false
+ eula=true
```

Now, start the `start.sh` again (`./start.sh`). You may have noticed that there is no output to the console since it is running in the background. You can "attach" to it by running `screen -r minecraft-server` or just `screen -r`. There, you have the full console. To access the console without stopping the server, press <kbd>STRG</kbd>+<kbd>a</kbd> and after that <kbd>STRG</kbd>+<kbd>d</kbd>.


# Step 5 - Auto-start
If you want your Minecraft server to start automatically with your server, open the crontab (`crontab -e`) and add the following line: `@reboot sleep 10s && ./home/<USER>/minecraft-server/start.sh`.

# Conclusion
You are done! Connect to your server now with the following address: `v11111111.quicksrv.de:25565`.


# License
MIT

# Contributor's Certificate of Origin
By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

 1) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I have the right to submit it under the license indicated in the file; or

 2) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate license and I have the right under that license to submit that work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part by me, under the same license (unless I am permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated in the file; or

 3) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified it.

 4) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution are public and that a record of the contribution (including all personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with this project or the license(s) involved.

Signed off by: Mawoka <mawoka-myblock@e.email>
