---
title: Setup of ruby on rails webapps on netcup webhosting 4000 webserver
description: Learn how to setup a ruby on rails app on a netcup webhosting 4000 webserver
level: intermediate
updated_at: 2023-07-28
slug: setup-ruby-on-rails-webhosting-4000-and-up
author_name: Cherdenko
author_url: https://github.com/Cherdenko/
author_image:
author_bio:
tags: [ruby on rails, webhosting4000, production,development] 
netcup_product_url: https://www.netcup.de/bestellen/produkt.php?produkt=2219
language: en
available_languages: [de, en]
---

# Introduction
This tutorial describes how to set up ruby on rails for production or developement on a netcup webhosting 4000 and up (e.g. webhosting8000).

This tutorial describes possible support interactions and error handling as well as interactions regarding nginx, apache and ruby config files.
# Requirements
You don't require anything besides 
*webhosting 4000 and up*
*moderate unserstanding in ruby* as well as
*knowledge of how to connect to a server via ssh*
*a domain connected to your netcup product* (either via external domain or a domain ordered from netcup )

# Step 1 - Odering webhosting 4000
At the time of the creation of this tutorial (July 2023), the recommended product to be used is webhosting 4000 https://www.netcup.de/bestellen/produkt.php?produkt=2219 as well as Webhosting 8000 https://www.netcup.de/bestellen/produkt.php?produkt=2221
If you are an existing customer or want to upgrade your webhosting you can do that via the customer control panel -> magnifying glass[symbol] -> products -> Administration -> select at least webhosting 4000

# Step 2a setup of a domain
On your products page click on the magnifying glass[symbol] scroll down to `Select domain` and make sure the domain where you want to enable ruby on rails is selected.
Take a look at your document root This is where you will be uploading your ruby app to.
*alternative if you want to change your document root click on edit settings and change the path to someting like ruby-webapp/httdocs*
Finally continue clicking on Plesk Overview
#Step 2b setup of a subdomain
if you don't want to use a domain, but a subdomain follow these steps
Select the domain you want to add your subdomain to.
click on 'Plesk Overview'
The first page which is selected is the Websites & Domains Overview page.
Here you have to click on 'Add Subdomain' -> Enter the name of the subdomain and change the field which says hostinXXXXX.XXXX.netcup.XXX to your full qualified domain name
set the document root to something like 'ruby-webapp/httdocs'
Finally click on Ok
# Step 3 - Configuration of the selected domain for ruby
On the Plesk Site of 'Websites and Domains' Click on the domain name you want to add ruby to.
You should see the tabs 'Dashboard' as well as 'Hosting and DNS'
We want to concentrate on the Dashboard page for now.
Click on Install Applications in the lower right corner.
Select Ruby
Ruby is now enabled and you should be redirected to a new page.
click on document root and select the document root which you configuered and remebered earlier.
Applicationmode should be set to development for now.
Finally click on 'activate ruby'
# Step 4 Uploading your application
Download a ftp program like 'filezilla' or 'winscp'.
Go back to the 'Websites & Domains' Overview
Click on the domain where you just enabled ruby, if not already open
Click on Connectiondata (For ftp, database)
In Winscp or filezilla create a new connection to your ip adress found in this overview
use your password and username provided in the overview. *Save your username and password as well as your ip adress for the next step*
You can display the password by clicking on the pencil or just setting a new one by clicking on the pencil as well
After connecting to your webspace, navigate to the folder which you selected or created earlier. in case it does not exist simply create it.
upload your ruby app to this directory. the root of the directory should contain your gemfile, as well as your config.ru and Rakefile.

# Step 5 - Setting the correct permissions
Download an ssh program like putty(just kidding. Please use putty)
Connect to your server via your ip as well as port 22.
enter your username 
enter your password.
execute the following comand to set the correct permissions
`chmod o-w /<path>` <path> should be the path you remembered

#Installing the ruby app.
In Plesk (Websites & Domains) click on the domain where ruby is installed.
Click on 'Ruby' below the label 'Developer tools' 
Click on package installation which should run through just fine.
#Configuring nginx
In Plesk (Websites & Domains) click on the domain where ruby is installed.
Click on Ph in the Dashboard pane.
Disable the php support by removing the checkbox
Click on Ok
Click on Hosting and DNS
Click on Apache and nginx
Proxymode *must* be deactived hence we won't be using apache as a backend webservice but rubys own webserver
Click on 'OK'


#Trubleshooting
#Ruby app is not available in the browser
Error Message:
`Blocked host` as well as 
To allow requests to *host*.de make sure it is a valid hostname (containing only numbers, letters, dashes and dots), then add the following to your environment configuration:
Go to your application.rb file which should be @ <ruby web app>/config/application.rb
In your  `class Application < Rails::Application` block add 
`config.hosts << "your.configured.domain.example.de"` 
replace the domain with your real domain.
Click on save
It should be available now.

#Error messages during package installation
1. Check if your ruby app installs normally on your local developement device.
If you have any error messages during your package installation of the ruby webapp which contains something like this:
`You have to install development tools first.` 
Goto the netcup support pane, found in you customer control panel.
Add A Reference to Ticket 'NCSUP-195073'
And add an inquiry for the ruby support tools to be installed.

#Conclusion

Whilst it takes a while to fully configure on netcup server it's really worth the performance which you will be able to achive.
If you have any questions regarding this tutorial, contact me 

[MIT](https://github.com/netcup-community/community-tutorials/blob/main/LICENSE)

Copyright (c) 2021 netcup

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicence, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

# Contributor's Certificate of Origin
By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

 1) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I have the right to submit it under the licence indicated in the file; or

 2) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate licence and I have the right under that licence to submit that work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part by me, under the same licence (unless I am permitted to submit under a different licence), as indicated in the file; or

 3) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified it.

 4) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution are public and that a record of the contribution (including all personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with this project or the licence(s) involved.
