---
title: Setup of phpMyAdmin Themes
description: In this tutorial you will learn how to install and activate phpMyAdmin themes on your server.
level: beginner
updated_at: 2023-06-29
slug: phpmyadmin-themes
author_name: Konstantin Protzen
author_url: https://github.com/cuzimbisonratte
author_image: https://github.com/cuzimbisonratte.png
author_bio:
tags: linux, ubuntu, php, databse, nginx, administration, admin, phpmyadmin, sql, mariadb, mysql, theme, themes, theming, design, style
netcup_product_url: https://www.netcup.de/bestellen/produkt.php?produkt=2991
language: en
available_languages: [en, de]
---

# Requirements

This tutorial requires that you have set up your phpMyAdmin instance using the tutorial [Setup of phpMyAdmin with nginx and a Central Login](https://community.netcup.com/en/tutorials/phpmyadmin-with-central-login).

# Introduction

This tutorial describes how to install and activate a theme on a phpMyAdmin installation.

# Step 1 - Preparation of the server

First you have to log in to your server via SSH:

1. Enter `sudo -s` to get root rights.
2. Enter your password and press `Enter`.
3. Now enter `apt update -y && apt upgrade -y  && apt autoremove -y && apt install -y wget zip unzip` to update the server, remove all packages that are no longer needed, and install the program `wget`.

- If a pink window with the title "Pending kernel upgrade" appears, press `Enter` once to continue.
- If a pink window with the title "Daemons using outdated libraries" appears, press `Enter` once to continue.

# Step 2 - Selection of the theme

1. Open [phpmyadmin.net/themes](https://www.phpmyadmin.net/themes/) in your browser.
2. Select the version of your phpMyAdmin (you can find the version in the start page of phpMyAdmin in the "phpMyAdmin" panel under "Version information").
3. Choose a theme you like and right-click on "Download".
4. Click on "Copy link address".

# Step 3 - Downloading the theme

1. Enter `cd /usr/share/phpmyadmin/themes` to change to the folder where the themes are stored.
2. Enter `wget ` and then paste the copied link address. (Example: `wget https://files.phpmyadmin.net/themes/darkwolf/5.2/darkwolf-5.2.zip`)
3. Enter `unzip ` and then paste the name of the downloaded file. (Example: `unzip darkwolf-5.2.zip`)
4. Restart nginx by entering `systemctl reload nginx`.
5. Close the SSH connection.

# Step 4 - Activating the theme

1. Open your phpMyAdmin instance in your browser.
2. Click on the design dropdown right in the "Display settings" panel of the start page and select the theme you just installed.

# Conclusion

You have now successfully installed and activated a phpMyAdmin theme.

Thank you for using this tutorial!

# License

[MIT](https://github.com/netcup-community/community-tutorials/blob/main/LICENSE)

Copyright (c) 2023 Konstantin Protzen

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

# Contributor's Certificate of Origin

By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

1.  The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I have the right to submit it under the license indicated in the file; or

2.  The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate license and I have the right under that license to submit that work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part by me, under the same license (unless I am permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated in the file; or

3.  The contribution was provided directly to me by some other person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified it.

4.  I understand and agree that this project and the contribution are public and that a record of the contribution (including all personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with this project or the license(s) involved.
