---
title: Use SSH Keys for Login Instead of Passwords
description: Learn how to log in to your server using SSH keys instead of passwords.
updated_at: 2021-11-05
slug: use-ssh-key-login
author_name: Florian Gareis
author_url: https://github.com/TheZoker
author_image: https://zkr.io/avatar.jpg
author_bio: -
tags: [ssh, key, login, password, security, secure]
netcup_product_url: https://www.netcup.de/bestellen/produkt.php?produkt=2894
language: en
available_languages: en
---

# Introduction

In this tutorial, we'll have a look at how to use the more secure SSH keys for logging in to your server instead of the weaker password method.

# Requirements

- Server (root or VPS)
- PC/laptop running Linux

# Step 1 - Generate SSH keys

For this tutorial, we assume that you have a Linux OS running (Windows users can use WSL).

First, we need to generate our SSH key pair, which we can use later to log in to our remote machine.
To do this, we start by running the following command:

```bash
ssh-keygen
```

This command will by default generate a key with 2048-Bit-RSA encryption. If you need more security, you can also add the `-b 4096` flag to the command to generate keys with 4096-Bit-RSA encryption.
Now you have to define where to store the key. The default setting is `~/.ssh/id_rsa` (where ~ points to the home folder of your user on Linux).
Then the script prompts you to enter a password that will prevent the key from being used without a password. If you don't want to protect this key with a password, just hit `Enter` (not recommended).

If the key was successfully generated, the output should look like this:

```bash
Your identification has been saved in ~/.ssh/id_rsa
Your public key has been saved in ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
The key fingerprint is:
SHA256:G+UCCe2r45jt7az1cTVEZj4R1/B8U7eAMNmw0DsAOA username@host
The key's randomart image is:
+---[RSA 3072]----+
|   .oo. oo+oB=oo |
|  .  ..o . @=o+oo|
|   E .o o + =o o+|
|      .. + . .  .|
|       .S . o    |
|      .  + . .   |
|     .. o .      |
|   +o+ . o       |
|  oo=++ .        |
+----[SHA256]-----+
```

# Step 2 - Copy the public key to the remote server

## Step 2.1 - Using `ssh-copy-id`

We now have the private and the public keys on our local system, but we need to transfer the public key to our server.
For that we can use the built in `ssh-copy-id` of our Linux OS.

Use this command:

```bash
ssh-copy-id username@host
```

Example:

```bash
ssh-copy-id maxmusterman@37.34.15.3
```

where `37.34.15.3` is the IP of the server.

When connecting to the server for the first time, the system will ask whether it should trust the key fingerprint of the server:

```bash
The authenticity of host '37.34.15.3 (37.34.15.3)' can't be established.
ECDSA key fingerprint is fd:fd:d5:f9:88:fe:73:84:e1:55:00:ab:d6:6f:22:fe.
Are you sure you want to continue connecting (yes/no)?
```

When you type `yes`, the script connects to the server:

```
/usr/bin/ssh-copy-id: INFO: attempting to log in with the new key(s), to filter out any that are already installed
/usr/bin/ssh-copy-id: INFO: 1 key(s) remain to be installed -- if you are prompted now it is to install the new keys
maxmusterman@37.34.15.3's password:
```

Next enter the password of your remote server. If the connection was successful, the script will copy the public key into the `~/.ssh` folder of this user account:

```bash
Number of key(s) added: 1

Now try logging into the machine, with: "ssh 'maxmusterman@37.34.15.3'"
and check to make sure that only the key(s) you wanted were added.
```

## Step 2.2 - Manually copying the key

If `ssh-copy-id` is not available on your system, you can also connect to your server via SSH and then copy the key manually.
Run the following command on your local machine to get the content of the key:

```bash
cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
```

The output should look like this:

```ssh
ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAADAQABAAABgQDAuEmfbUGlpPtjpxZU7jcLmmgQ5OAsfPumzvadL4qjLhv3FFbpanQpsSlCfE8kDvWqCkHRhXm29TpjtGLU0mJisg3dz9zHkoG1LoRTnPACmmzjW3Ca+MX56cgWKRFB/d2QN9riPCkRfvFCBgeHlZIa5hGlmbcu+uJNfTu/1vDjlhnyWMB9gxuesOPEB08YT64Ro84ACPAIdfFC4RJICilO+L9FgeYjKwi9jUvYOL3Ywhgs/DkC+EvTkZGyUL8cX8ITkFjLpVh7c/8KkFZCB6DQe1CJQKo8Y5TUM2wit0UlrsrO2AhnlfXXTtIOELQ3ygug6YI1CPaqGpLPbzlM1hfnros5S2UJB6OmiDM17YuyMdbQj2O5HyDUTEtGzgfKt/IG3Na6wFSGEOZhY4TIV9Z6FwXvJ+F4GK4srMgq/HJAIthbRP3x30K29Sfb8edgzDtaJbR38vrIjGUAVbr+mSqVZ1yeithXjuQ9hVOc1GaCxaMuVAw/CHtwdnq100= username@host
```

Now copy this key (all of it including the `ssh-rsa` part and also the `username@host` in the end) and connect to your server via SSH.
If you are connected to your remote server, create a new file in the `~/.ssh` folder named `authorized_keys`:

```
nano ~/.ssh/authorized_keys
```

Paste the previously copied public key content into the file, save it with `Ctrl+O` and close the file with `Ctrl+x`.

Now the key should be ready for use.

# Step 3 - Test the key

The last step is to test the key. Therefore, log out of your server if you are still logged in and log in again using the usual SSH command:

```
ssh username@host
```

Instead of username/password, the SSH key is now used for login. If you have previously set a password for the key file, you must use it for the key to work.

# Step 4 - Disable password login (optional)

To make the whole login process more secure, you can disable password login in general and use only SSH key.
For this we need to edit our `sshd_config` file:

```bash
sudo nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config
```

Next we have to change this option:

```diff
- #PasswordAuthentication yes
+ PasswordAuthentication no
```

and restart the SSH service:

```
sudo systemctl restart ssh
```

From now on, only SSH key login will work.

# Conclusion

There should be an SSH key on your server that you can use to log in to it.
This method is considerably more secure than the usual password method and helps to increase server security.

# License

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicence, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

# Contributor's Certificate of Origin

By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

1.  The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I have the right to submit it under the license indicated in the file; or

2.  The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate license and I have the right under that license to submit that work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part by me, under the same license (unless I am permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated in the file; or

3.  The contribution was provided directly to me by some other person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified it.

4.  I understand and agree that this project and the contribution are public and that a record of the contribution (including all personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with this project or the license(s) involved.
