---
title: Running Something 24/7 and Starting it on Boot
description: Learn how to run something (e.g. a file or a script)
slug: run-24-7-start-on-boot
author_name: Jonas Löchner
updated_at: 2021-12-03
author_url: https://github.com/Zoey2936
author_image: https://dl.sancraft.dev/images/Sanoj/1.png
author_bio: -
tags: [linux, debian, cron, boot, 24/7, python]
netcup_product_url: https://netcup.de/bestellen/produkt.php?produkt=2894
language: en
available_languages: en
---

# Introduction

In this tutorial you will learn how to run "something" (e.g. a file or a script) 24/7 on Debian and Ubuntu servers and start it on boot.<br>
For the task described in this tutorial, I will use a Python script.<br>
I am doing this on a Debian 11 server (netcup RS 2000), but other Debian versions and Ubuntu should also work.

# Requirements

You need a Debian or Ubuntu server with an internet connection. <br>
You also need root permissions on your server.

# Step 1 - Installing Cron and Python

First you need to connect to your server via SSH.<br>
Then switch to the root user and update your system, followed by the installation of Cron and Python:

```sh
su
apt update && apt upgrade -y && apt autoremove -y
apt install wget curl sudo nano python-pip-whl cron python3 python3-pip screen -y
```

## Step 1.1 - Starting script

In my example I use a Python script in `/home/python` which is named `run.py`. I want to start it on boot and it should run 24/7.<br>
First, I switch into the folder and install the Python requirements that I need for the script:

```sh
cd /home/python
pip3 install py-cord py-cord[voice]
```

Then I proceed to start the script (replace `discord-py-bot` with a name and `python3 run.py` with the command to start):

```sh
screen -AmdS discord-py-bot python3 run.py
```

We use Gnu Screen to keep the script running even if the SSH connection is closed.

### Step 1.1.1 - Watch console (optional)

If you want to see the output of the console, run the following command (replace `discord-py-bot` with the name you defined in Step 1.1):

```sh
screen -r discord-py-bot
```

If you want to return to your normal console, press `CTRL + A` and then `CTRL + D`.

## Step 1.2 - Setting up "start on boot"

If you want the file to start on boot, run the following command (replace `screen -AmdS discord-py-bot python3 run.py` with the entire start command of Step 1.1 and `/home/python` with the folder path of your file):

```sh
{ crontab -l 2>/dev/null; echo "@reboot sleep 10 && cd /home/python && screen -AmdS discord-py-bot python3 run.py" ; } | crontab -
```

### Step 1.2.1 - Testing your setup

If you want to test whether your setup works, reboot your server:

```sh
reboot
```

After rebooting, check if you can see the console (replace `discord-py-bot` with the name you defined in Step 1.1):

```sh
screen -r discord-py-bot
```

# Conclusion

Now, every time you reboot your server, the file (in our example, the Python file) is also started and executed in the background.

# License

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicence, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

# Contributor's Certificate of Origin

Origin By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

1.  The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I have the right to submit it under the license indicated in the file; or

2.  The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate license and I have the right under that license to submit that work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part by me, under the same license (unless I am permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated in the file; or

3.  The contribution was provided directly to me by some other person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified it.

4.  I understand and agree that this project and the contribution are public and that a record of the contribution (including all personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with this project or the license(s) involved.
